Client service specialist interview questions and answersInterview questions
for a client service specialist position will depend on the job and the
company, but most potential employers want to know if you have experience if
you’re invested in your career, and if you’re a good fit for the company. They
also want to know if you have specific soft skills like leadership,
relationship-building, communication and decision-making.Practice makes
perfect! Here are five common client service specialist interview questions
and our sample answers for you to use as inspiration as you prepare your own
answers.1. How would you handle an angry client?Hiring managers ask this
straightforward client service specialist interview question to gauge how you
handle conflict — a critical skill for client service specialists.Example
answerProvide one anecdote if you have one and share as much detail as
possible while being succinct in your answer. If you do not have experience
with angry clients, then imagine how you might handle such a situation.
Highlight your problem-solving, interpersonal and communication skills.For
example, “I have had to deal with my fair share of angry clients in previous
positions. What is most important is to remain calm. My job was to help them
in any way I could, so that is just what I did. I explored all possible
solutions, making sure to communicate my efforts with the client every step of
the way. Upon finding a solution, I made sure to verify with the client that
his or her problem had been solved in a satisfactory manner.”2. What would you
do if you were presented a problem by a client that you didn’t know how to
resolve?Potential employers ask this client service specialist interview
question to see how quickly you can think on your feet and how you solve
difficult problems. Example answerPotential employers expect that you will
encounter problems that you can’t resolve on your own. Show that you know how
to ask questions to help your clients. For example, “In a previous client
services role, I was asked a question relating to a loophole in our policy
that I had no idea how to answer. I explained to the client that I was not
exactly sure how that section of the policy worked in her specific case, and
told her that I would check with my manager. I then contacted my team leader
and explained the problem. He provided me with the correct solution, which I
was then able to pass on to the client. I made sure to note where the answer
could be found for quick reference in the future.”3. You are dealing with a
customer on the phone, and you are struggling to find the solution to his or
her problem. The customer starts getting impatient. How do you handle the
situation?Potential employers ask this interview question for client service
specialists to see how you handle conflict. Example answer:To answer this
question, think back to a time you faced a similar challenge and explain the
problem in detail, then be specific when explaining how you arrived at a
solution or compromise that made the client happy. “I try to have all my
resources readily available to minimize the amount of time spent searching for
solutions, but it inevitably has happened that I have stumbled across a
problem that was not so easily solved. If the search is taking longer than
expected, I regularly check in with the client and explain to him or her what
I am doing and why it is taking longer than expected. I also make sure to
continuously thank the client for his or her patience. If the problem is
particularly difficult to solve, I will ask if it is alright to call the
client back, provided that this is permitted by company policy.”4. Give an
example of a time when you have gone the extra mile for a client.When
potential employers ask this client service specialist interview question, it
is usually to gauge your customer service skills. Example answer: To answer
this interview question for a client service specialist job, think about how
you’ve honed your customer service skills through work experience, school, or
other areas of your life and how you apply them to working with clients. Be
specific, give details and highlight at least one relevant accomplishment. For
example:“When working in the client service department of a bank, I received a
call from a client who had been promised she would receive her debit card the
previous day, but it never came. It was a Thursday, and she was leaving the
country that Sunday and needed the card before then. Normally it would take
until the following Monday to resend the card; however, I researched carriers
in the area that offered Saturday delivery and was able to coordinate with our
card shipping center to have the card printed first thing Friday and delivered
by Saturday afternoon. The woman said I had saved her vacation, which made my
day.”5. What do you like and dislike about working in the customer service
industry?Potential employers ask this straightforward client service
specialist interview question to get an honest idea about what you like and
dislike about your work. Example answerTo answer this question, remember that
honesty is paramount but put a positive spin on what you dislike about your
job. You might say something like, “Nobody likes dealing with angry people,
and there are days where angry customers can really get you down. It can be
frustrating when you can’t make someone happy, despite your best efforts.
However, when you are able to help a person and make his or her life just a
little bit better, there is no better feeling in the world.”Client service
specialist interview tipsResearch the company. Review the company’s website,
LinkedIn account, news channels, and employee reviews to learn about the
company’s goals, needs, products and culture. Take notes and tie your findings
into your answers as you prepare for your client service specialist
interview.Use the STAR interview method. The STAR method is a tried-and-true
way of answering interview questions clearly and concisely. It will help you
to be specific and keep track of your thoughts when answering client service
specialist interview questions. Use keywords from the job description in your
answers. You’ve likely studied the job description by the time you reach the
interview stage of the job application process. Review it before your
interview and align your answers with keywords from the job requirements. For
example, talk up your communication skills and knowledge of state and federal
employee benefits regulations if they are listed in the job description.
Practice with others and in front of a mirror. Use these questions and other
commonly asked interview questions, such as “Why should we hire you?”,
“Describe a time when you needed to cope with a stressful scenario,” or “Why
did you choose this career?” to answer interview questions for a client
service specialist job.Be ready to answer behavioral interview questions. Most
potential employers will ask at least one behavioral question so don’t let
them throw you off guard!Prepare questions for your interviewer. Asking
questions during your job interview is as important as answering client
service specialist interview questions. Have three to five questions ready to
ask during or at the end of your interview. This is an opportunity to show
you’ve done your research on the company and to ask pertinent questions about
the job. Sometimes it helps to have them written down in a notebook so you
don’t forget.Bring hard copies of your resume and cover letter. Impress your
interviewers by bringing in a hard copy of your application documents.Write a
follow-up letter to each person you interviewed with after your client service
specialist interview. Doing so keeps you fresh in the interviewer’s mind,
displays professionalism, and allows you to elaborate on answers from your
interview or correct mistakes you might have made. An interview follow-up
letter provides the opportunity to thank your interviewers for their time, and
ask questions that you didn’t get to ask during your interview. Customize your
letter for each interviewer to show you were paying attention and to
personalize your correspondence. Time is of the essence: send your follow-up
letter within 24 hours of your interview.5 common client service specialist
interview questions key takeaways Research the company before your
interview.Practice makes perfect. Review the 5 common client service
specialist interview questions and answers on this page to start. Use keywords
from the job description to craft the answers for your interview questions for
client service specialists.The STAR method can help you articulate your
answers to client service specialist interview questions clearly and
concisely.Follow up.

