5 Assistant Store Manager Interview Questions & Sample AnswersQuestions asked
in an assistant store manager interview will go beyond your resume. Hiring
managers seek to know if you are a good fit for the company through your
possible day-to-day as well as other important tasks on your way to
management. Remember, if you have experience in retail or management, use real
life examples to illustrate and back up your answer. Are you able to handle
long hours and stress?With this interview question for an assistant store
manager position, hiring managers want to know more about not only your
availability but your physical endurance and ability to maintain quality
service. Sample answer: I understand the numerous responsibilities that come
with being an assistant store manager and am capable of handling the stress
associated with it. At my last job, it was not uncommon for me to work 10-hour
shifts where I had to constantly be on my feet. One way that helps with
handling everything is being able to delegate tasks efficiently. I would never
want my colleagues to think I am simply unloading tasks on them, so I always
express my utmost gratitude to the people who help me maintain the high level
of quality of the store.How would you handle customer complaints?In this
interview question for an assistant store manager position, hiring managers
seek to know more about how you handle conflict without affecting customer
service and maintaining retail policies. If you have experience, use a real
life example to back up your answer. Sample answer: Having worked as an
assistant store manager in the past, I know how to handle difficult customers.
Once I had a customer come in with a blender he said was broken, but it almost
looked like someone had dropped it. The customer was really causing a scene
and demanding his money back. I did not want to make other customers in the
store uncomfortable, so I offered the difficult customer store credit, which
seemed to resolve the situation. Should a complaint come up that I could not
handle, I would likely ask for the assistance of the manager.Do you have
experience with firing or hiring personnel?Management roles require an eye for
personnel, what works and what doesn’t. With these assistant store manager job
interview questions, hiring managers want to learn more about your ability to
discern future talent, how to maintain employee morale and how to handle both
situations without affecting employee retention and satisfaction. Sample
answer: I have quite a bit of experience in the hiring process. At my last
job, I would usually sit in with the manager any time she was interviewing a
potential employee. She usually gave me an opportunity to ask a couple
questions, and after we had interviewed everyone for the day, she would
consult with me about my opinion regarding who was most qualified. I have only
ever fired one person, and I only had to do it because the manager was out for
the week and my employer wanted the employee in question gone immediately. It
was difficult, but I managed to handle it successfully.Are you comfortable
dealing with both low-level employees and upper management?As an assistant
store manager, you would be acting as liaison between your everyday employees
and higher ups. In this retail assistant store manager interview question,
your interpersonal skills should be front and center, highlighting your
leadership and communication skills. Sample answer: I understand that as an
assistant store manager, I will be required to interact with different
individuals on a daily basis. When the employer gives me information to
communicate to the entry-level employers, I am able to convey all of the
material without leaving out a single detail. When issues come up at the
store, I am the one who has to let upper management know.How would you handle
a difficult employee?With this retail assistant store manager interview
question, hiring managers seek to know how you handle employee relationships,
what your decision-making process is as well as your ethical skills.Sample
answer: If issues came up with an employee, the first thing I would do is
bring it to the attention of the manager. Once we had an employee constantly
show up late. I brought it to the attention of the manager, who did not
realize because he had other duties to attend to, and he was particularly
upset because the employee in question was marking that he was showing up on
time on his time card. The first thing I did was speak with the employee and
tell him that if he ever showed up late again and lied about it, there would
be much more severe consequences. The worker continued arriving late, so we
ultimately had to terminate his employment.Assistant store manager interview
tipsResearch the company — Use official channels like the company website and
the news and, if possible, ask current or former employees about their
experience. This will help you prepare for your interview questions for
assistant store manager. Use keywords from the job description in your answers
— Save the job description and use its information to answer the questions.
Mention your experience with tools, like inventory software, POS systems, KPI
goals and other skills mentioned in the description. Practice with others and
in front of a mirror — Use these questions and check other commonly asked
interview questions to prepare for your assistant store manager interview. Use
the STAR method to answer your questions — Separate your complex answer into
four areas with the STAR method. This method will help you answer complex
questions and keep track of your thoughts during your assistant store manager
interview. For example: Explain the Situation — “The issue we were facing…”
Define your Task — “I was responsible for…”Discuss the Actions — “We
decided…”Share the Results — “As a result,…”Prepare questions for your
interviewer — This is your chance to interview the interviewer. Prepare at
least three questions to ask during or at the end of your assistant store
manager interview. Think about what you’d like to know before continuing the
interview rounds and also showcase your interview research with these
questions. Feel free to bring a notebook or paper with your questions written
down.Bring hard copies of your resume and cover letter — Highlight your
preparedness by bringing in a hard copy of your documents. You’ll leave a good
impression by arriving at your assistant store manager interview ready to
tackle any issues, even if it’s a finicky office printer. Key takeaways
assistant store manager interview Practice before your assistant store manager
interview using common questions and answers, like the examples on this page.
Use the job description to build the answers for your interview questions for
assistant store manager.The STAR method can help you answer in an organized
manner and keep track of your response to ensure you’re not missing any
points.

