5 Bank Teller Interview Questions & Sample AnswersBeyond your resume,
interviewers are trying to determine if you are the right fit with their bank
teller interview questions. Make sure each answer includes keywords from the
job description and watch your body language to keep a professional image. Why
do you think customer service is an important skill for bank tellers to
have?Bank tellers are the everyday face for customers. In this interview
questions for bank teller, an employer wants to find out what the candidate
understands as good customer service skills and how they are able to provide
it. Sample answer:“One of a bank teller’s primary responsibilities is to work
with customers, so I can imagine customer service skills are very important. I
have never worked in a bank setting before, but I have worked in retail. I am
sure the customer service part is very similar. A customer will come to me
looking for help with a transaction. I have to be able to give information
about banking options in a friendly and patient way even if the customer is in
a bad mood. Without good customer service, many clients would choose to move
their business elsewhere, which is really the entire reason it is so important
for tellers to have outstanding customer service skills.”How does this
position fit into your overall career goals?This is often a position used as
an entry point to employment in a bank. Candidates may seek to grow their
career within the same organization. Employers spend a long time training
potential employees and with this bank teller interview question they want to
know if you’re committed to their institution. Sample answer:“I am currently
pursuing a bachelor’s degree in agriculture finance. I know this bank is well
known for its ag loans. I would like to gain hands-on experience while I
finish my degree and then work my way up to an agriculture loan officer right
here at this bank. In the meantime, I would like the opportunity to a teller
first since it gives me work experience in a bank which is helpful for my
career goals. I can also gain important knowledge about the workings of this
bank, so should my plans succeed, I will be a prime candidate for the loan
officer position.”Are you comfortable working with large sums of
money?Handling money is an everyday task for most bank tellers. With this bank
teller interview question, interviewers want to know how you manage financial
transactions, your ability to do so accurately and quickly and ensuring the
customer feels safe and confident during the process. Sample answer:“For some
people, the idea of working with a lot of money can be daunting. I have never
understood this particular aversion. As a cashier at a gas station, I had to
handle some money, but of course I would have to work with a large influx of
money through a bank. I never had an issue with money-handling. I am good at
math, so I was able to consistently give back accurate change. I think it is
important to really take your time when you are handling large amounts of
money so you can ensure you are doing everything accurately and not allow
yourself to get flustered. Certain customers enjoy talking during the process,
but I never found the conversations distracting from what I was supposed to be
doing with the money when I worked at the gas station.”Resume Banner Do you
know how to detect fraudulent checks and counterfeit cash?A good, quick eye
that does not draw attention to the issue at hand is key for bank tellers.
Their quick response is imperative. With this interview question for a bank
teller, employers will discern your knowledge and detection technique. Sample
answer: “I do have experience using a counterfeit pen for cash, and I am aware
of a few of the discrepancies to look for visually on printed money, such as
the holograph and the thin vertical strip with the bill’s denomination. I am
not as familiar with spotting fraudulent checks, but I am a very quick
learner. I know the bank has some hands-on training, which I am sure would be
enough to prepare me to detect fake checks.”What qualities do you think are
important in a bank teller and why?This interview question for a bank teller
will help the employer see if you understand the role. Beyond money handling,
bank tellers are an important part of financial institutions. Their customer
service, financial skills and speed can bring in more business or build a
distrustful reputation. Providing the right answer could help you get to the
next step. Sample answer: “In my opinion, the most important quality in a bank
teller is honesty. I think honesty will help in the interactions with the
customers, because sincerity can go a long way in making someone feel helped
and heard. Honesty is also important because bank tellers are expected to
handle a lot of money. If integrity is lacking, it can leave a very negative
image/experience for the bank in question.”Bank teller interview tipsResearch
the company — Use official channels like the company website and the news and,
if possible, ask current or former employees about their experience. This will
help you prepare for your interview questions for a bank tellerUse keywords
from the job description in your answers — Save the job description and use
its information to answer the questions. Mention your experience with tools,
like teller platform software, product knowledge and transaction processing.
Practice with others and in front of a mirror — Use these questions and check
other commonly asked interview questions to prepare for your bank teller
interview. Use the STAR interview method to answer your questions — Separate
your complex answer into four areas with the STAR method. This method will
help you answer complex questions and keep track of your thoughts during your
bank teller interview. For example: Explain the Situation — “The issue we were
facing…” Define your Task — “I was responsible for…”Discuss the Actions — “We
decided…”Share the Results — “As a result,…”Prepare questions for your
interviewer — This is your chance to interview the interviewer. Prepare at
least three questions to ask during or at the end of your bank teller
interview. Think about what you’d like to know before continuing the interview
rounds and also showcase your research with these questions. Feel free to
bring a notebook or paper with your questions written down.Bring hard copies
of your resume and cover letter — Highlight your preparedness by bringing in a
hard copy of your documents. You’ll leave a good impression by arriving at
your bank teller interview ready to tackle any issues, even if it’s a finicky
office printer. Bank teller interview questions key takeaways Practice before
your bank teller interview using common questions and answers, like the
examples on this page. Use the job description keywords to build the answers
for your interview questions for a bank teller.The STAR method can help you
answer in an organized manner and keep track of your response to ensure you’re
not missing any points. Bank teller interview questions FAQWhat questions to
ask for a bank teller interview?This is your chance to learn about the
employer during your bank teller interview. Think about what you’re looking
for in a new role and formulate questions to find out if this employer fits
your career.For example:What is the career path for a bank teller? Is there
room for advancement?How do you measure performance? What tools do you provide
tellers to improve their performance?Why did you choose to work for this bank?
Remember to tailor the questions to the specific employer, using the same
research done before the interview. How to answer bank teller interview
questions?Use this guide to prepare for your interview and practice more
interview questions. As you answer each bank teller interview question, ensure
you’re using keywords from the job description and are emphasizing your
interpersonal skills, like customer service, attention to detail and foreign
languages. The STAR method will help you stay on track with each answer.

