The first step to increase your chances of getting that second interview or
job offer is to observe best interview practices, which apply to nearly every
industry. Researching the company, dressing professionally, and preparing
responses to common questions are critical to your success. Keep these
additional underwriter interview tips in mind, as they’re essential in
highlighting the skills and experience hiring managers desire in the
industry.Build my resumeUnderwriter Interview TipsCommunicate Effectively: As
an underwriter, you will be judged by hiring managers on how well you
communicate with others. During the interview, your answers to their questions
should be concise and intelligent, providing information without straying from
your central topic. Preparing answers to customary interview questions is a
start, but think about what sort of job-specific inquiries they’re most likely
to ask, and draft your answers ahead of time to use as talking points.
Understand that your goal is not memorization but to demonstrate your ability
to effectively relay your message. Finally, you will also be evaluated on your
written communication skills, so make sure your emails and letters to hiring
managers and other company staff are well written. Use clear, understandable
language, and pay special attention to proper grammar and punctuation.Focus
Their Attention on Your Analytical Skills: This is a great opportunity to
speak about instances in your employment history, volunteer work, or other
situations in which you put careful, detailed analysis to use in problem
solving. In underwriting, you will have to draw from information from a wide
variety of sources, and your job will be to sift through and parse it down to
determine what is relevant. Showing examples of how you have done this in the
past provides solid evidence for the employer that you’re a capable candidate
for an underwriting position.Highlight Your Decision-Making Abilities:
Underwriting requires an understanding of company practices and standards and
applying them as you tender decisions about policies, levels of coverage, and
costs. You need to prove that you can work independently to analyze the data
you’ve gathered and then make an appropriate choice. During the interview, be
sure to describe an instance from your past in which you significantly
demonstrated effective decision-making. Also, don’t forget to clearly tie your
past actions to a visibly positive result, especially if it translates to
specific numbers in terms of time or cost savings.Build my resumeDemonstrate
That You’re Teachable: While there are larger industry trends at work, each
insurance firm offers coverage according to its own standards, ideologies, and
business goals. You will discover some of this information as you research the
prospective employer. In the interview, don’t forget to mention what you’ve
already learned to show that you understand the company. Additionally, it’s
not enough to just say that you’re a fast learner: describe specific
situations that required you to learn quickly and illustrate the cause-and-
effect relationship between your actions and their solid, tangible
rewards.Emphasize Relevant Certifications and Education: A bachelor’s degree
is preferred for candidates in this field. If you have one or any advanced
degrees, don’t forget to mention them when you speak about your educational
qualifications. Additionally, it’s helpful to highlight any additional
coursework you’ve undertaken that’s helped you gain more knowledge in the
field. Finally, if you have earned any certifications or designations, such as
a CPCU designation or a CLU certification, it’s vital that you call attention
to them during the interview because they’ll differentiate you from other job
candidates.Following these underwriter interview tips helps you succeed at
your first interview and increases your chances of being called back.
Communicating effectively, focusing on your analytical and decision-making
skills, demonstrating that you’re teachable, and calling attention to relevant
education and certifications will help you stand out from your competition and
ace the interview.

