What does it mean to provide excellent customer service?Providing excellent
customer service means going the extra mile in making sure a customer is happy
and satisfied with a company’s products or services. It also involves
providing service to a customer in a timely, pleasant manner. In order to
provide excellent customer service, one needs superb communication and problem
resolution skills.What does good customer service mean to you?Before entering
an interview for a customer service job, get a handle on what good customer
service means to you. Good customer service typically means providing timely,
attentive, upbeat service to a customer, and making sure their needs are met
in a manner that reflects positively on the company or business.As with most
questions like this one, a hiring manager asks them to learn many aspects
about you and how well you will perform in a particular position. Typically,
he or she wants to identify the candidates who show true passion for the
position, and a good answer can make you stand out. Hiring managers may also
want to find out about your outlook and mentality toward dealing and working
with customers and how you would effectively respond when specific situations
arise.If you are concerned about how to answer this commonly asked question,
there is no need to worry. You must prepare for it and have your answer ready
to go when the time comes. The better you prepare yourself, the better and
more effective your answer will be — and it will be more likely to impress the
hiring manager. Build my resumeBuild my resumeSample ‘Define Excellent
Customer Service’ interview answersExcellent customer service involves meeting
and surpassing expectations. It means showing the customer how important he or
she is to you and the business by interacting with he or she in a friendly,
helpful and positive way. The idea is to leave a lasting impression on
customers by working with them and assisting them in the best way possible.I
also believe that excellent customer service involves being an expert on the
products sold in order to help people make good decisions. In my past jobs, I
gained numerous repeat customers through my consistent positive attitude and
my exceptional ability to thoroughly answer customer questions, ensuring I
always provided the best advice.Excellent customer service means making each
and every aspect of the customer’s experience an absolutely positive one. I
believe that effective people and communication skills are what have helped me
to excel in the customer service positions I have held in the past. I always
ensured customers were completely satisfied with their decisions by conducting
follow-ups, and I worked to resolve any conflicts or problems that arose
effectively. Good customer service means meeting expectations, but excellent
customer service means exceeding them.These samples should help you to better
prepare yourself for answering one of the very common interview questions that
hiring managers ask. Use what you have learned to form a good answer for
yourself so you can succeed at your interview.

