The best way to answer is to emphasize this more than the logistics of your
education. Perhaps you only attended high school and have no college
experience. Rather than revealing this, you can discuss what skills you
developed in high school and how you might apply them to the job. The
objective in responding is not to give a list of the schools you attended but
to show that your schooling has had a part in preparing you for the position
at hand. If you can relate it to the job skills needed, you can nail the
question no matter what level of education you might possess.Know that a
resume’s skills section must align with the needs and requirements noted in
the job advertisement. If you are still looking for other jobs, you can build
the skills section of your resume for a job application (plus all other resume
sections) using our Resume Builder.How to answer the ‘Discuss your educational
background’ interview question1. Be honest about your achievementIf you left
some of your schooling uncompleted, or if you never attended college, you may
be self-conscious about sharing these details with an employer. Telling the
whole story is important, though, and leaving out details can lead to awkward
clarification. Instead of shying away from or misrepresenting these facts,
briefly tell an interviewer the history of your education and offer any
explanation you feel is appropriate. They will likely care more about how you
discuss your education than how much of it you have.Interview questions such
as “discuss your educational background” are looking for more than just an
overview of the schools you attended. Never make the mistake of hiding your
education or representing it falsely to an employer. They will either find out
or expect you to have experience you cannot fake.2. Discuss the greater
context of your educationAn interviewer who asks you to “discuss your
educational background” wants to know what knowledge and experience you have.
While information about your high school and college performance are relevant,
details about your course of study and what classes you took are more
relevant. You should be able to tell a recruiter how your education relates to
the position you are applying for.Even if you did not study anything directly
related to the field, you can tell him or her how you gained skills that may
be necessary for the position. This places your education in a context that
increases your value as a candidate and keeps your abilities at the forefront
of the conversation.3. Discuss your education’s past, present and futureIf you
have been out of school for years or plan to attend school again in the
future, you may think you lack relevant information to answer this with. On
the contrary, discussing your educational background should involve mentioning
your past, present and future endeavors. This shows interviewers that you are
committed to continual learning and it’s also an opportunity to discuss your
goals.You should answer interview questions such as this with an emphasis on
the connection between your educational aspirations and the position at hand,
too. This solidifies the skills you have that are relevant to the job.Sample
‘Discuss your educational background’ interview answersThe job description
noted that there are certain educational requirements, and the rest of the
posting indicated the position necessitates excellent time management and
communication skills. My educational background includes my high school
diploma and some time in college, where I studied business management. I
completed three terms of higher education, and in that time, I honed my
communication and time management skills in classes such as marketing and
English. The knowledge I gained in these and other courses would be directly
beneficial to this position, and I plan to continue developing these skills in
both my education and work by taking more classes and pursuing new challenges
in the workplace.My educational experience includes a recently completed
college degree, which contributed greatly to my development of skills such as
sales and teamwork. I noticed that the job posting listed these as essential
skills for the position. The classes I took and projects I completed were for
a marketing major, and they imparted many of the concepts necessary to
understanding good sales techniques. I also often worked to complete
presentations with classmates, and this helped me hone my ability to
collaborate constructively. My educational background has prepared me well for
this position and for a successful career path. I also plan to pursue further
coursework in the future in order to keep learning and gain the qualifications
to advance in this field.

