Are you wondering how to answer this question adequately? The solution is
preparation. Preparing a good answer will help you to come off as confident-
motivated and educated when the question is asked.How to Answer the ‘How Has
Your Education Prepared You Your Career’ Interview QuestionDiscuss relevant
activitiesIn order to answer this question- you can talk about any academic
activities you have done that you felt really prepared you to work. For
instance- you can talk about specific projects you’ve had that really tied to
real world examples. Additionally- mention other things such as case studies
that taught you about specific topics or situations. If you have had any
projects that relate specifically to the job you are interviewing for- now’s
the time to talk about them. Making your answer relevant is essential. To get
all the details of the job duties- read the job description.Talk about skills
learnedCollege professors usually have a reason for teaching a certain way-
and sometimes the purpose is to teach you specific skills that they know will
be beneficial in the work world. Consider the skills and abilities required
for the job you applied for- and then consider the important life skills you
gained from your college education. If you had a professor that made you think
extensively- they were likely developing your critical-thinking skills and
problem-solving abilities. Talk about how that class honed in on your skills
and how you have applied them to your jobs thus far. Go on to mention how your
valuable education has provided you with the expertise necessary to excel at
the particular position. Interview questions like this require in-depth
answers.Internships and experienceThere’s nothing more valuable than the
experience you gain from completing internships in college. Internships can
really teach you about your field and about real-life workplace skills as
well. You may have learned how to deal with certain situations you probably
didn’t encounter in the classroom. You may have also learned great people and
team work skills by working on team projects. Whatever it is that your
internship provided you with- this is a great time to talk about it. Remember
to make it relevant to this specific job. Give examples of situations you
encountered during your educational internships that have made you better able
to handle situations in your past jobs. By doing this- you can show the hiring
manager just how important your education has been in preparing you for the
position.Sample ‘How Has Your Education Prepared You for Your Career’
Interview Answers1. My college education has exceptionally prepared me for a
smooth transition from school to work by providing me with the skills
necessary to succeed. On my first internship- I honed in on my marketing
skills by developing useful strategies with a team. This experience has also
helped to develop my communication skills- as I was required to work with
others to create solutions. I feel that the experience I gained was truly
valuable- as it has prepared me for my successful marketing career thus far.
During my education- I additionally became fluent in Spanish and French-
allowing me to communicate with a broader variety of people.2. In college- I
feel that I was well prepared for real-life situations and jobs. Difficult
courses have taught me exceptional critical-thinking skills and that the
answers will not always be in front of my face. Through courses like this- I
have learned how to solve complex problems and that high-quality results take
hard work. Many of my internships have also given me the opportunity to
experience situations first hand and taught me how to come up with the best
solutions.Knowing how to answer interview questions is the key to providing
good answers. Now that you know what employers want to learn about you when
they ask you about your education- you will be well equipped to provide an
exceptional answer and really excel at your interview.

