If you’re not sure how to answer this, we got you. In this guide, we will
focus on:Why employees ask this question.How to answer it.Steps to take to
find your answer.Examples to inspire your answer.Tips for answering “What can
you bring to the team?Why do potential employers ask, “What can you bring to
the team?”When employers decide to interview you, it means your resume made a
good impression. It was effective in providing a snapshot of your career and
skills. Yet, they need to know more about you and what you can contribute to
the team.“Just looking at the candidate’s resume won’t actually tell me if
they are going to be a good fit. A relevant resume will get you an interview,
but it’s not enough to get you the job,” says U.K.-based interview coach
Margaret Buj.“There are other people with similar qualifications to yours, so
employers would be looking for someone who not just has relevant experience,
but someone who is genuinely excited about the opportunity, someone who can
talk about how they’ve made an impact in their previous/current role,” she
says about answering, “What will you bring to the team?”“When employers ask
you that question, they want to determine if you possess the right skills and
knowledge to be a valuable asset to the company and assimilate into the
company culture,” she says.According to Buj, they are trying to assess:Are you
a good match for the business?Would you be a good long-term hire for the
business?How much do you know about our company?Are you sufficiently
interested in us to have researched us?What do you think are your best skills
and attributes?What are your values? How good are your communication and
influencing skills?”How to answer “What can you bring to the team?”Now that
you know why potential employers ask the question let’s discuss how to answer
it. To help frame your answer, ask yourself, “What can I bring to the team?”
Then consider the following points when preparing your answer.1. Are you a
good match?You got the interview. The company is interested in learning more
about you. But, while the company might look perfect for you on paper, and
vice versa, do you really click? You might possess the right hard skills for
the position, but so do other candidates. Try an answer that connects with the
core of the company.2. What do you think are your best skills and
attributes?Choose your strongest skills, the ones where your expertise
resides. Be as specific as possible while keeping the company’s needs in mind.
According to Margaret, “You need to also highlight how those attributes will
apply to the position you are interviewing for. How you would apply your
skills could be part of what makes you different.”Margaret gives us an
example: 3. How much do you know about the company?One of the key elements in
a job search is researching the company and industry. Employers want to know
if you understand what they do and how they work. Research the company and
learn as much as possible. Then, use the knowledge in your answers to what
would you bring to the team.4. What qualities do you bring to the team?When
discussing your qualities, bring your soft skills and values center stage
through an example from a previous job.“To help you show your value clearly,
you should try to give examples of how you’ve demonstrated the skills an
employer is looking for in your past jobs. Showcase your value through a story
and use a STAR format (Situation, Task, Action, Result). Try to highlight your
unique attributes and how they could help the team,” recommends Buj.For
example:5. What skills can you bring to the team?The interviewer has your
skills in your resume. Yet they need to know how you can implement them.
Provide examples of how you used the skills in previous positions or during
your academic career. Remember to include how you can implement these skills
in the workplace through issues you’ve learned about during your company’s
research.Relevant statisticAccording to a survey by G2, the largest software
marketplace, 79% of job seekers will consider a company’s mission statement
before applying. Connecting your skills to the mission statement can highlight
what you bring to the table.Answers to “What can you bring to the team” for
top jobsNeed inspiration? Here are some example answers for “What can you
bring to the team?” for your next job interview.Accounting Manager Experts in
budgeting and financial reports, accounting managers must also possess
excellent communication skills.Nurse Practitioner As patient care providers,
nurse practitioners must assess and diagnose the patient’s condition and
formulate a treatment plan. With their leadership, collaboration skills and
commitment to quality and safety, NP have an important role in health
care.Teacher With patience, creativity and flexibility, teachers can reach
their students. Their engaging presence and commitment can create a great
learning environment.Customer Representative Customer representatives often
are the unofficial face and voice of a company. Their communication, attention
to detail and conflict-resolving skillsDo’s and Don’ts when answering “What
can you bring to the team?”Tips for answering “What can you bring to the team”
effectivelyThoroughly research the company. The best way to answer this
question is by learning about what the company does and where it is failing.
Then, you can combine it with your skills to create a great answer.Use your
uniqueness to your advantage. If you speak multiple languages and are
meticulous to a fault, let those attributes set you apart.Show your enthusiasm
for the company. If you are excited about the opportunity, let it shine
through your answers. The excitement combined with your skills and experience
could set you apart from the competition.Need a new resume now?Keep your
options open with a great new resume, or update your current one fast to apply
for a new position.Our free resume templates will help give you the
professional polish you need to stand out. Download a free template to make a
new resume from scratch, or upload your existing resume into our online resume
builder for a fast and easy refresh.We’ll organize your job credentials
correctly in any of the three standard resume formats and ensure your resume
meets the latest applicant tracking system (ATS) requirements.Don’t forget
about a professional cover letter to complement your customized resume!Use our
Cover Letter Builder to create the perfect cover letter. Match your cover
letter template to your resume, and let us do the work for you. In minutes,
you’ll have everything you need for your next job application — and it’s free
to use! Check out these free professional cover letter examples for
inspiration.Answering “What can you bring to the team?”: Important Takeaways

