The video interview is a very important tool in the hiring process for many
hiring managers. Some have considerably more applicants for a single job than
they need, and a video interview is a fast way to weed through those who are
qualified but might not be the right cultural fit for the job. While a video
interview is convenient, it also comes with its own set of unique challenges
for both the interviewer and the interviewee.Recruiters are looking for
confident, capable, and prepared candidates during a video interview. They
want jobseekers who are interested in the position and the company.
Interviewers also want to determine how a candidate will react to difficult
situations on the job. Preparation is a key part of this step in the hiring
process, and we’ve put together a list of tips that will help you ace your
interview.Build my resume1. Set the Right SceneThe first step in your video
interview preparation is to set the right background and scene. You don’t want
anything in view of the camera that distracts from what you are trying to sell
— your skills. The benefit of a video interview is that you have control over
your surroundings, rather than walking into an office that is unfamiliar and
new to you.Be very careful about what is behind you, as this is what the
interviewer will see. Try to avoid having posters, pictures, or knickknacks in
the background. Find a quiet space that is free of distraction, and control
the lighting. Check beforehand to ensure that your face is lit and that the
room’s major light sources aren’t behind you, as this can cause shadows on
your face and silhouette.2. Practice Different Types of Interview
QuestionsThis step can help you in any type of interview. You simply can’t
practice enough interview questions. The more trial runs you do, the better
you become at answering questions on the fly. During a video interview, you
are likely to get traditional questions such as these:What is your educational
background?What previous jobs have you worked at similar to this one?Why do
you feel you are a good fit for the job?You will also get several behavioral
interview questions that show how you have acted in the past in specific
situations. Your answers give an indication to the interviewer about how you
are likely to behave in the future. These are some examples:How have you dealt
with a co-worker you didn’t get along with in the past?How do you motivate
others to be invested in a project?What are successful ways you resolve
conflict? Give me an example.3. Triple-Check Your EquipmentIf your webcam cuts
out right before the interview, it can have devastating consequences. The day
before the interview, make sure all your video, audio and Internet connections
are working correctly. Even if your equipment worked a month ago, it should
still be checked out before your recent interview. Make sure you have a stable
connection, a power source for your device, and audio and video equipment that
works. If you are required to download a specific program for the interview,
do so several days before so you can practice with it.4. Make Eye Contact With
the CameraOften, people are confused during a video interview about where they
should be making eye contact. Looking at the faces of the interviewers on
screen makes it appear that you are looking down. If you look directly at your
camera, it appears as if you are making eye contact with the interviewer,
which projects confidence and friendliness during the meeting. Always speak to
the camera rather than the screen.5. It’s Your ShowThink of a video interview
as a one-man or one-woman show. You’ve got the lighting, the background, and
the equipment ready, and now it’s show time. It’s your job to control all
these factors, but also to show the interviewers enough about your personality
and your skills to get you the job. Think of yourself as a Hollywood star with
a little humility. You are willing to do what it takes to get the job, but you
are also confident that you are the best candidate. After all, you’ve done the
work to prove it.Be confident and relaxed going into your interview. Take the
time to unwind and put a smile on your face. Your body language and facial
expressions are vital during a video interview, and recruiters can sense
stress when your body is tense. The best way to feel comfortable and confident
during a video interview is to practice and prepare beforehand.With the right
amount of research, a fair amount of practice, and all the right equipment,
you will be ready to ace your video interview and get the job.

