However, the question reaches deeper than just proving that you can work as a
team member. Interviewers also want to know what essential attributes you can
contribute to a team. Even if you feel you work better individually or the
role is mostly self-tasked, it is critical that you understand how to properly
address this question.Know that if you are still applying for other jobs you
will need a resume that is customized to the needs and requirements of each
job advertisement. Build a resume (or rebuild an existing one) using our
Resume Builder, which helps you get the work at hand done in just three simple
steps.What are the qualities of a good team?Common qualities that successful
work teams share include:A dedication to the company’s goals and/or missionA
willingness to assist a team member with their tasks/duties, when
necessarySuperior written and oral communication skillsExcellent project
management skillsStrong organization skillsAbility to resolve conflicts
successfully and calmlyWhat qualities make a good team player?The qualities
that make a good team player include:Commitment to ensuring the team succeeds
with all tasks, duties and projectsWillingness to help a team member in
needCommitment to making sure team members are informed on any developments
related to projects or the company’s overall businessReliability,
responsibility, and excellent communication skillsAn interviewer only takes 30
minutes to an hour to determine if an individual is a qualified candidate for
a position. As such, many of the questions asked have different layers, and
candidates who do not address a few of the subtextual questions may not leave
a strong, lasting impression. Make sure you understand the different elements
of questions that are commonly asked, so that you may provide the most
beneficial answer. Take a look at the explanations and sample responses to
make sure that you ace your answer.How to answer the question1. Put it in
perspectiveThough there is nothing wrong with answering the question from the
context of your current position, it’s better to answer this and other
relevant interview questions from the perspective of the job you are applying
for. If you do decide to utilize examples from your current or previous job,
make sure to make clear correlations between your experience and the
requirements for the position you seek.Remember, your whole purpose is to
convince the interviewer that you are the best fit for the job. Illustrating
the beneficial aspects that you would bring to the position can help to paint
you in a positive light.2. Describe relevant skillsAnswering the question ‘How
would you describe yourself as a team member?’ is an excellent opportunity to
share your strong skill set in relation to the position that you are applying
for. However, you should avoid providing a long list of your skills and
abilities.Instead, craft your answer in a way that you are able to highlight
your strengths within your description. It can also be helpful to review the
job description provided and see what skills the company is looking for, as
well as any specifics about their definition of a team player. Knowing these
facts and implementing them into your answer can read positively with your
interviewer.3. Do not bypass the questionFor those without experience in a
certain area it can be tempting to try to breeze through a reply; however, it
is never a good idea to bypass or skip any interview questions. It may appear
as if you are trying to hide something and could raise suspicion. Even if you
have a history of working by yourself or if the job does not require teamwork,
you will have some form of communication with others and it is critical that
you show that you are personable and able to effectively interact with
others.Also, you should never lie about any experiences, as this could
automatically cause you to lose any chances of gaining employment with a
company. If you have little experience with teamwork, focus your efforts on
talking up your qualities that would be great contributions to a team. This
indicates a willingness to be a positive contributor should you be called upon
to participate in a team setting, as well as flexibility.Sample
answersThroughout both my academic and professional career I have developed my
skills as a team player. I have played volleyball since middle school, and it
has taught me the value of proper communication and doing my best to make a
positive contribution to team efforts. In my professional career, I have had
the opportunity to lead and contribute to several different team projects, and
I believe that my administrative and management abilities, coupled with my
research and analysis skills, help me to be a versatile and well-rounded team
member.I would describe myself as a cohesive team member; I am willing and
able to do whatever task is necessary to complete the project. As a marketing
representative I would do my part in collecting necessary data and presenting
it to the team. I would also be willing to lend a helping hand to other team
members when needed. I would be glad to engage in discussions about issues
with the project to help come to an effective resolution. At the end of the
day, I believe that the project must be complete and it is my duty to
contribute in any way possible.When answering ‘How would you describe yourself
as a team member?’ and similar interview questions, if you apply the tips
provided you will be sure to leave a positive, lasting impression.Similar
Questions1. Why would you make a good team member?When answering this
question, make it known that you are a team player — someone who enjoys
working in a team-based environment, and someone who enjoys assisting other
team members when they are in the weeds with a task, duty or project.
Emphasize that you’re committed to making sure the team you’re on succeeds,
and that the company’s business goals are met.2. Why should we hire you for
this position?To answer this question, first identify what the organization
needs and then explain how you fit the bill. Use one point to argue how your
experience and expertise exceed their expectations.If you’re talking about
becoming a member of a team, then explain how your background and working
style would benefit the team.

