There’s a good reason why this interview question is so popular, though, and
why it pops up in places you might not expect to see it. It’s because
employers are not necessarily looking to be briefed about your formal
leadership roles when they ask about leadership skills. They are asking about
style, and they are looking at how you will communicate your needs and rally
other people around you in a team environment. With some preparation and
practice, just about anyone can find a way to talk about how they approach
these moments of leadership in a way that really sets them apart.How to Answer
the ‘How would you describe your leadership skills?’ Interview QuestionUse an
Elevator PitchDiscuss a moment or two where you really stepped into an
organizational role, and use descriptive and easily identifiable words to
characterize both your choices and your choice of presentation to your
teammates. When preparing to give this kind of answer, it is best to keep it
brief by choosing anecdotes that demonstrate your point as clearly as
possible, because the style is clearest and most effective when your answer
stays between thirty seconds and a minute. When brainstorming the situation,
you want to describe the ways your leadership skills made a difference. Think
about how to highlight multiple skills with a single example, or how to pivot
between a couple clear examples if that is not possible. The key is to keep
things concise, so your answer moves forward quickly.Write Out Your IdeasAfter
practicing the elevator pitch format, it helps to write out the version you
feel comfortable with. This does a few things. First, it allows you to look
over the organization and make sure it is as effective as possible. It also
gives you the opportunity to see and clarify any points that might be vague or
hard to understand for people who were not present during your examples. When
speaking, these minor touches are easy to miss, and many people find them as
they write, even before they read back their words. Writing out your answer
also gives you a chance to see what kind of length and word count you have, so
you get a sense of how fast or slow your practice delivery has been.Match Your
Answer to Their Corporate ValuesAs you describe your leadership skills, try to
choose examples and words that mirror the corporate values of the company you
are interviewing with. This demonstrates that your approach to leadership and
the problem-solving roles that come with it are going to mesh well with the
company’s needs. It also helps you practice finding ways to naturally fit your
skills and approach to employer expectations, which makes transitioning into a
potential job easier after hire. Those values, mission statements, and other
artifacts of corporate culture are important because they communicate that
company’s identity, so showing that you are paying attention to them goes a
long way. Remember, they ask these leadership interview questions for a
reason!Sample ‘How would you describe your leadership skills?’ Interview
AnswersI understand that you are looking for someone with leadership skills,
and that not every leadership style is going to work for every environment. I
think my leadership style is very flexible, though, because I would say I
focus more on facilitation than on leading from the front. I try to make sure
every team member knows what he or she needs to know to make sure the piece
fits. I also put the task and the results before doing things in my own
particular way so everyone is comfortable presenting their ideas in their own
style, and I encourage people to discuss things until either a consensus
emerges or a decision simply needs to be made.When approaching a situation
where I am leading or facilitating the discussion, I tend to take an organized
approach. While top,down methods have their weaknesses, I think adapting a
chain of command structure makes it easier for errors to be addressed and new
points of view to be considered. The channels of communication stay clear, and
as long as the focus is on how to make things work and not on any one
particular team member’s favorite way of doing things, you can get a lot done
with that organization. The hard part, as the leader, is making sure you are
doing just that, which means keeping your own preferences in check.With a
little practice and the right research into your potential employer,
highlighting your own leadership skills with a few key descriptive strategies
will help you craft answers to interview questions that really set you apart.

