Answering with stories is preferable to answering with a few words or
sentences. This is the key different between behavioral questions and much
simpler inquiries. The reason why interviewers ask this particular question is
to gain insight into whether you can handle working in a unique workplace
where a bunch of different personalities are at play. Other forms of this
question include ‘Describe a time when you worked with much different
personalities than your own’ and ‘Describe a time working in a new
environment.’ If you are having problems coming up with a response, make sure
to follow the STAR method. With preparation, you will ace it.Build my
resumeHow to Answer the ‘By Providing Examples, Convince Me That You Can Adapt
to a Wide Variety of People, Situations and Environments’ Behavioral Interview
QuestionImplement the STAR MethodAnswering behavioral interview questions
requires different preparation than other types of interview questions. When
preparing, you should brush up on the STAR method:Situation: Describe the
situation you were in. This can include a diverse population of people you had
to work with or a new environment you had to work in.Task: This is what you
were trying to achieve or work toward.Action: This can include what actions
you took to adapt. Did you learn a new skill or did you set out to work in a
new environment?Result: This is the grand finale of your response. Talk about
what ultimately happened at the end of all this.This gives you some structure
to abide by so that you are not preparing completely lost. Before the
interview, think of your accomplishments at past jobs and fit them into this
mold. You will find that it becomes much easier to prepare.Think Beyond Work
ExperiencePart of utilizing the STAR method involves picking the perfect story
to talk about. While most people expect this involves thinking back on past
jobs, you should not be afraid to get a little creative. If you studied abroad
during college or if you volunteered in a different country while still in
school, those can be excellent examples to bring up. They are also useful
because those experiences might not be on your resume, so the hiring manager
is learning a little something extra about you that he or she would not have
known otherwise.Show GrowthNo matter where the experience happened, you want
to show in your response that you are capable of adapting and growing. A big
reason why this question is asked is that the hiring manager wants to see that
you can change depending on the situation. An interviewer does not want
someone who is static or who forces their own methodology onto others if it is
not appropriate. Therefore do not simply describe a time when you were in a
unique situation; talk about what you learned and how you grew.Bring Up
Multiple Examples If You WantFor this question, you can focus on a single
experience, or you can describe multiple situations that are appropriate.
Bringing up multiple examples can also be good because it shows you are not
afraid to constantly expose yourself to new ideologies and ways of
thinking.Sample ‘By Providing Examples, Convince Me That You Can Adapt to a
Wide Variety of People, Situations and Environments’ STAR Interview AnswerIn
college I spent a week abroad to help build houses. It was a completely unique
experience, and I learned to adapt to a completely new culture. By learning
some essentials of the language, I was able to communicate at a basic level
with the people so that our group could build more houses. We were initially
only supposed to build 20 houses, and we ended up constructing over 30. My
last job was working as an assistant for a well-known art consultant, and I
routinely had to go to artists’ homes, which exposed me to a whole new line of
thinking. I learned the correct way to package art pieces and transport them
safely.It cannot be stressed enough that the key to having a successful
interview is to practice thoroughly beforehand. You may not know every
question that will be asked, but you can be ready with stories to handle
almost anything when it comes to behavioral interview questions.

