For the query about your system for tracking multiple projects and its
effectiveness, the interviewer is evaluating a few things. First and foremost,
they want information about how your system works, including insight into
whether you are the kind of person to focus mostly on one or two tasks to
completion or a multi-tasker who needs to constantly shift inputs. What they
are really looking for, though, is a statement about how your process
maintains a standard and delivers effectively, because there are many
effective ways to balance a workflow. What they need is to understand that
yours will be consistently meeting their standards for effectiveness.To
deliver this kind of answer clearly, focus on structuring your response with
the STAR method to ensure that you have an easy plan for delivering everything
your interviewer is seeking.How to Answer the ‘Describe the System You Use for
Keeping Track of Multiple Projects. How Do You Track Your Progress So That You
Can Meet Deadlines? How Do You Stay Focused?’ Behavioral Interview Question1.
Organize Your ResponseThe STAR method is the most consistent and widely
recommended format for answering behavioral interview questions, and the
reasons for that are clear. It is effective, and it gives you a process for
determining whether or not your answer is complete. The structure works with
the acronym, and it breaks down like this:S or T: The situation or task at
hand. During this stage, you want to describe the situation or the task you’re
relating with enough detail to allow a listener to understand the goals of the
work, the context it was happening in, and who else was involved in the
project with you.A: The actions you took to respond to the situation. The key
here is to make sure your actions were motivated toward the goals in the
question. In this case, project tracking.R: The results you obtained,
explained with clear cause and effect reasoning that puts them into context
with other people’s contributions and highlights how they were the results of
the actions you took.2. Expand Your ContextPart of ensuring that your listener
understands the context of your actions means accurately presenting everyone’s
contributions, as well as the reasons behind any potential conflicts. While
that might seem a little out of place on a project tracking query, keep in
mind that part of tracking projects is effectively communicating with other
people and coordinating your efforts together, and be prepared to put your
system into a wider context where the interviewer can see its effectiveness as
part of a larger system.3. Practice Your DeliveryThe best responses are
detailed enough to be understandable because they relate facts clearly, but
they also remain concise and refrain from tangents and wandering. To strike
this balance, you need to practice until your delivery is smooth, focused, and
around the length of an elevator speech. That way, you can be sure that your
points stick out and relate to one another clearly without losing your
audience or allowing yourself to get distracted with side issues.4. Values-
Match Your AnecdoteMake sure that as you relate your system for tracking
multiple projects, you also discuss how it maintains a high standard of
excellence and fits in with the corporate values of your prospective new
workplace. Demonstrating that kind of fit is always helpful, not only because
it shows how you will operate within the organization, but also because it
makes it easier for a behavioral evaluation to identify your viewpoint.Sample
‘Describe the System You Use for Keeping Track of Multiple Projects. How Do
You Track Your Progress So That You Can Meet Deadlines? How Do You Stay
Focused?’ STAR Interview AnswerSince my last job was working for myself as a
freelancer, this was a major part of my operation. I coordinated my Google
calendar with my phone to help put my personal and professional appointments
into one layout, and then what I did was I blocked off roughly two-hour
segments that were punctuated by my other administrative tasks. That way, if I
needed to work on something for much of the day, I still made sure to put some
variety into the day and to follow up on important tasks that maintained the
business. Most of the time, I tried to balance several projects over the day ,
too, so that I would maintain my focus and not overtax myself at a single
problem, but when the time came to pull out all the stops and hit a deadline,
the program flexed with that too.Answering behavioral interview questions in a
way that clearly relates to all the components in your STAR organization also
helps meet the length that you wanted to get to.

