There are many different techniques and responses you can use to answer
interview questions successfully. Before embarking on interviews- think about
the traits you possess that differentiate you from others. Which of these
traits give you the greatest advantage in the workplace? By preparing your
answer in advance you can avoid being blindsided during the interview- which
can decrease your chances of crafting an appropriate response. If you have
ever wondered how to answer this timeless interview question- read the
information below first.How to Answer the Question1. Focus on the Company:When
crafting an answer to this question be sure to focus on the company you are
applying to. What skills or traits can be beneficial to the organization?
Tailor your answer to fit the company you are applying to. For example- if you
are applying for a job at an accounting firm- list attention to detail or
mathematical prowess as one of your greatest attributes. This will put the
interviewer at ease and let him or her know you possess the skills needed to
perform the job adequately. Research companies beforehand to find out about
the type of employees they tend to hire and the company vision. This will
allow you to list attributes and qualities that are in alignment with company
values.2. Be Authentic:When asked this question many employees are tempted to
give cookie-cutter or unbelievable answers. Responding “I work very hard” or
“I’m a perfectionist” will only make you seem inauthentic or conceited.
Employers want to hire honest employees- and they are looking for someone
confident enough in their abilities to respond truthfully. Choose a reasonable
attribute such as “I’m organized” or “I work well with others.” These
attributes are universally desired but also realistic. After settling on an
attribute- be sure to expound upon your response so the interviewer can
develop a deeper understanding of your abilities.3. Ask Others:Before you
arrive at the interview- try speaking with former coworkers- supervisors-
teachers- and other individuals about your attributes and qualities. If you
are still on good terms- these individuals may be able to provide you with an
honest- nonbiased perspective. This can be especially helpful if you are
struggling to answer this question- and in many instances other individuals
can provide you with a better understanding of your character and work ethic.
If you cannot ask any of the individuals above- don’t hesitate to ask a
friend- family member- or partner; just be sure that the attributes they list
are relevant to the job you are applying for.4. Internal and External
Rewards:What attribute or quality provides you with the most professional
validation? Think about this from an internal and external perspective.
Internally- how do you feel about possessing this particular attribute? What
sort of personal growth does it prompt? Externally- what does this attribute
help you to achieve in a professional setting? By providing interviewers with
emotional and professional information- you will help them gain a more
comprehensive view of your strengths and skills.Sample Interview Answers1. I
believe that strong organizational and time management skills are my greatest
attributes. In order to complete work on time- I prefer to create a concrete
and tangible plan for doing so. This helps me stay on task- and it often
enables me to finish some projects ahead of time. Even though I place a great
amount of emphasis on organization and scheduling- I also find that a certain
degree of flexibility is needed in the workplace. There will be times when
things don’t go according to plan and I need to adapt to the current
situation- so I always try to factor flexibility into my work plans as well.2.
I feel that my strongest attribute is my ability to work well under stress.
Under stress or pressure- many people have difficulty being productive- but I
have had to learn how to cope with the stress and remain productive. I firmly
believe that stressful situations provide us with opportunities to grow- both
personally and professionally. In short I view stress as an opportunity to
rise to the occasion and learn more about myself. I feel that this trait can
provide me with benefits regardless of the situation I find myself in.The
information above will certainly help you ace your job interview. Now you can
walk into an employer’s office and answer interview questions with confidence.

