When you get asked this particular question, interviewers want you to describe
experiences that give long-term evidence of your work ethic. Your answer will
help them know that you are independently motivated to put in your best effort
in the work that you do. Another way that interviewers might phrase this
question is ‘Describe an experience that defines your work ethic.’No matter
how startling these types of questions may seem in the moment during an
interview, you can prepare for them beforehand so that you are ready to answer
effectively. The STAR method is a great tool in organizing your answer to best
showcase your qualifications.How to Answer ‘Give an Example That Demonstrates
Your Willingness to Work Hard’ Behavioral Interview QuestionDescribe
Experiences That Showcase Your Ability to Work Hard in a Large or Long,Term
Project. If you have not prepared properly, you can easily describe a single,
isolated experience that will not effectively describe your commitment to hard
work. Prepare a story that shows that hard work is truly a major part of your
character and personality. This story can either be a large project or a long-
term project in which you invested a lot of work and time. If you are given
the opportunity to share two experiences, take advantage of this by telling a
story when you worked hard on an intellectual and a manual labor project.
These show the interviewers that you are well-rounded in your work ethic.Do
Not Be Vague or Just Say That You Worked Hard in Previous Jobs. Being vague in
your answer to this question will give the interviewer the impression that you
have not had personal experience with hard work. When you share a specific
example, you show them that your work ethic is something important to you.
Additionally, do not just simply state that you have worked hard in your
previous jobs. If you are asked for specifics, you will disappoint your
interviewers with vague answers.Prepare a Good Example Beforehand Using the
STAR Method. Many people go to interviews expecting that they will be able to
adapt and answer any question on the spot without prior preparation. This can
leave them without words when challenging questions are asked that do not have
a straightforward response. This is especially true when it comes to
behavioral interview questions. Although you might be able to think of a weak
example to answer tough questions on the spot, you really want to prepare to
provide the best answer. The STAR method is a proven way to organize and
answer questions in the way that interviewers will remember after your
interview is done.Prepare a successful example using the STAR method to devise
a complete, memorable answer. This is what STAR stands for:ST– situation, task
or problemA– actions that resolved the issueR– results that describe how the
situation improvedSample ‘Give Two Examples of Things You’ve Done in Previous
Jobs or School That Demonstrate Your Willingness to Work Hard” STAR Interview
AnswerIn my previous job, I was responsible for improving the quality
assurance culture of my company. This meant creating new policies, training
staff and enforcing new standards on the employees. Even though I had a short
amount of time to implement these standards, I dedicated every minute of my
time at work to reach my goal to improve the plant’s quality and safety. I
drafted 30 new policies, trained all the staff on these requirements and
helped them to follow these new measures in a period of six months. It was
amazing to see how much the quality of our products and our customer
satisfaction improved in that short amount of time.Just last year, I
volunteered with an organization that fixed homes after significant natural
disasters. I was on the demolition crew and was responsible for removing
degraded materials from homes so that they could be repaired. Because of my
work ethic I developed as a result of my upbringing, I dedicated myself to
work incredibly hard during each eight,hour shift. My group set records in the
numbers of houses we prepared for repairs, and we helped 10 families get back
into their homes.Giving great answers to challenging behavioral interview
questions requires careful planning and practice. By using the STAR method,
you’re sure to impress potential employers.

