In this guide, we’ll show you how to prepare for some of the trickier
behavioral interview questions hiring managers might ask, provide expert
example answers to some of the most common behavioral questions, and offer
tips for getting through the interview with poise.What is a behavioral
interview?First, let’s take a look at the difference between a behavioral
interview and other common types of interviews.There are four basic types of
interview questions:Closed-ended — These questions seek specific details, like
“Why did you leave X Company?”Open-ended — These questions dig a little bit
deeper than closed-ended questions and reveal your communication style and
skill set. For example, “What are your greatest strengths and
weaknesses?”Situational — Situational questions focus on hypothetical future
events and how you might handle them, such as “What would you do if you caught
a colleague stealing from the company?”Behavioral — Behavioral interview
questions look at possible real work or school events from your past and how
you responded to them.Generally speaking, employers ask behavioral questions
for the same reason they ask other interview questions: to get a sense of your
abilities to perform the job requirements. However, interview behavioral
questions differ from other interview questions because they show hiring
managers who you are and how you perform through various challenges.
Behavioral-based interview questions aim to know how you think, solve
problems, and gauge whether or not you are a good fit for the team and
company.Common Behavioral interview questions by theme5 behavioral questions
about teamworkDescribe a time when you put your needs aside to help a
colleague.Can you give an example of a time you helped contribute to team
culture or success?Give an example of a time you had a conflict with a
colleague, and how you handled it.How do you work with people with different
personalities?Describe a time in which your colleagues disagreed with you.5
questions about time managementGive an example of how you’ve juggled multiple
deadlines.Describe your system for keeping track of multiple projects.How do
you establish priorities while scheduling your work? Describe a long-term
project that you were responsible for, and how you managed to keep everything
on schedule.Describe a time when you were under a heavy workload. How did you
handle it? 5 behavioral interview questions about communicationGive me an
example of a time in which you had to persuade a co-worker.Describe a
situation in which you convinced someone to see things your way.Describe a
time in which you used written communication to make a point. Describe a time
in which your active listening skills really paid off.Describe a time where
communications failed you and a client.5 questions about client-facing
skillsDescribe a time when communications failed you and a client.Give an
example of how you made a good impression on a client—how did you do it?Give
an example of a time you didn’t meet a client’s expectation, and how you
addressed the situation.Can you give an example of a time you’ve dealt with a
difficult client?Give me an example of when a client expected one thing and
you delivered another. How did you deal with the situation?5 questions about
adaptabilityDescribe a time in which you had to make a tough decision on the
spot.Provide an overview of how you handle change. Give me an example of how
you juggle multiple priorities. Tell me about a time you were under a lot of
pressure. What was going on, and how did you get through it?Give some examples
of how you’ve adapted to different people and environments. 5 behavioral-based
questions about problem-solvingWhat steps do you follow to study a problem
before making a decision?Give an example of a time you used research skills to
solve a problem.Describe a time in which you came up with an innovative
solution to a problem. What’s the toughest challenge you’ve had, and how did
you handle it?Describe a problem you’ve tackled that demonstrates your
analytical ability. 5 questions about motivationWhat keeps you passionate and
engaged with work?What kind of challenges do you seek at work?How have you
motivated others?What have you accomplished that demonstrated your willingness
to work? Describe a time in which you had to inspire and lead a group of
dissatisfied workers.5 questions about conflict resolutionHow do you deal with
conflicts? Describe a time when you mitigated between two colleagues. Describe
a time when a colleague disagreed with you. Describe a time in which you had
to persuade others to compromise.Describe a situation in which you had to
handle an angry customer. 5 behavioral interview questions about
leadershipDescribe a project you’ve undertaken that demanded a lot of
initiative.Describe a time in which you took the initiative. Have you ever had
to discipline or counsel an employee?Describe the characteristics of a
successful manager.Provide me an example of when your leadership skills failed
you.Top ten behavioral questions with answersLet’s explore some of the most
common behavioral-based interview questions and possible answers for
them.Behavioral question: Describe a time in which your colleagues disagreed
with you.Tip: When employers ask this question, they are often looking for how
you resolve conflict and to test your communication, teamwork and persuasion
skills. An excellent way to respond to this challenging question is by telling
a story about a time you were able to avoid conflict and turn the situation
into a collaborative effort.Behavioral question: Tell me about a time when you
were under a heavy workload. How did you handle it?Tip: This behavioral
interview question presents an opportunity to display your ability to manage
your time, ask for help and work efficiently under pressure. When preparing
your answer to this question, be very specific about exactly what you did to
manage your workload and why it was effective.Behavioral question: Describe a
time when you had to make a last-minute decision.Tip: Interviewers usually ask
this question to see how well you can think on your feet. We’ve all had to
make work decisions on the fly, so it’s likely you have more than one in your
arsenal. Pick one that highlights a win and how your decision helped the
company.Question: What have you accomplished that demonstrates your
willingness to work?Tip: Here, interviewers are looking for how much effort
you’re willing to put in to achieve something and your thought process for
getting there. Details are vital when answering this question.Behavioral
question: What’s the toughest challenge you’ve had, and how did you handle
it?Tip: Employers ask this behavioral interview question across industries and
job levels because they want to know what you’re made of. You don’t have to
dig too deep for the worst work experience you’ve ever had. Think of a
problematic situation you faced that you successfully overcame with your
problem-solving abilities.Behavioral question: Describe when you came up with
an innovative solution to a problem.Tip: When answering this question, you
want to show your creativity, ability to solve problems, and to stand out from
the crowd, your collaborative side.Behavioral question: How have you motivated
others?Tip: This behavioral-based question is meant to assess your ability to
lead, persuade and work with others, as well as your sense of empathy and
ability to communicate effectively. Think of a time you’ve led a team,
presented at a meeting or conference, taught a class, or sold a
product.Behavioral question: How do you establish priorities while scheduling
your work?Tip: Potential employers ask this question because they want to know
how well you manage your time. When preparing your answer, describe your usual
process for prioritizing work and be specific. If you use time management or
project management software, then provide the name of the program. End with an
explanation of how your process enables you to succeed at work.Behavioral
question: Describe a time when you had to defuse an angry client (or
coworker/colleague). Tip: Interviewers often ask this question to see how well
you can turn sticky situations into positive ones. It tests your listening and
verbal communication skills, ability to stay cool under pressure and your
professionalism. Have a good success story ready to respond to this question
and be clear about what you did to turn the situation around.Behavioral
question: Give an example of how you’ve adapted to different people and
environments.Tip: This behavioral interview question tests your flexibility
and ability to go with the flow. It’s often asked during job interviews for
fast-paced work or for environments that change frequently. Frame your answer
to highlight your ability to take on multiple responsibilities while adapting
quickly and maintaining a professional attitude. Emphasize successful outcomes
with measurable achievements that result from your adaptability.How to prepare
for behavioral interviewsAnyone can answer behavioral questions confidently —
even job seekers who are just starting their career or don’t have much work
experience — by using the time-proven STAR method when preparing for their
interview.Here’s how to use the STAR method: to prepare for your behavioral
interview:Describe the situation, such as when you had to compromise with a
manager, coworker, colleague or classmate or meet a tight deadline.Name the
task you had to complete during the situation. For example, perhaps you had to
research an event space for a company.Explain the action or actions you took
to complete the task or overcome the challenge you faced in the situation. For
example, maybe you delegated duties to get something done.End your story by
revealing the result of your actions while emphasizing your achievements, like
getting a promotion.Behavioral Interviewing Tips:Tell your behavioral
interview answers like a short story with a beginning, middle and end, and
stick to the point.Be wary of rambling. It can be easy to talk too much when
you’re nervous and you feel like you’re on the spot. Stay focused and keep
each answer to about one-minute longBe honest. Don’t create imaginary
anecdotes because you don’t think you have real-world examples to refer to.
It’s acceptable to answer with situations from school or volunteer work, for
example, if you are interviewing for your first professional job.Review the
job description closely and take note of the requirements when preparing to
answer behavioral questions for an interview. It’s impossible to know which
questions interviewers will ask, so the best way to prepare is to know what
the employer is looking for and touch on those key points when
answering.Highlight your achievements at the end of each answer to behavioral-
based interview questions, just like you would when writing your resume and
writing your cover letter.Be specific when formulating your answers to
behavioral questions. Provide enough details, so the interviewer knows what
you have done and how you did it. Describe what you achieved after the
situation and what you learned in the process.Need to make a resume fast?If
your interview doesn’t work out, we can help you perfect your resume fast for
your next job application.Our resume templates will help give you the
professional polish you need to stand out. started on the right track.
Download a free tempalte to make a new resume from scratch, or upload your
existing resume into our Resume Builder for a fast and easy refresh. Plus,
we’ll organize your job credentials correctly in any of the three standard
resume formats, and we’ll ensure your resume meets the latest applicant
tracking system (ATS) requirements.

