A resume can help employers determine if a candidate meets these requirements.
But once dozens of resumes have been narrowed down to a few final contenders,
the interview process can help managers close the deal. So if you want to get
in the door, you’ll need a great resume. But you’ll also need to navigate the
interview process and allow your potential employers to confirm their positive
hunches about you. Here’s what to expect.First-Round InterviewsFirst-round
interviews are often called “screenings” and they’re designed to narrow down a
large pool of applicants using simple red flags. These screenings usually
happen by phone or video, since they’re fairly short. During this round, an
employer may contact you to ask a brief list of specific yes or no questions.
These may include:“We noticed on your resume that your address is in another
city. How will you get here every day if we hire you? Will you commute, or
will you move? Will you want us to cover your moving expenses?”“We noticed
that you’ve held a position as a mid-level manager. This is a junior-level
position. Will you be willing to take a step down to accept this job?”“We
noticed that you have most of the requirements for this job, but you don’t
have a master’s degree. Are you planning to earn one soon? What do you have to
offer in lieu of this credential?”Second-Round InterviewsSecond-round
interviews are usually longer, more detailed, and more open ended. Since most
of these interviews happen face-to-face, they’ll give you an opportunity to
make a great first impression with your appearance, your words, and your non-
verbal gestures. This round will require significant preparation beforehand.
Get ready to answer questions like these:“What can you bring to this company
that can help us reach our goals?”“How would you describe your experience in
your own words?”“How would you describe your personality, your approach to
problem solving, your leadership skills, etc., in your own words?”Third-Round
InterviewsFor most positions, the third round of interviews should be the
last. If you’re called for a third session, it usually means that these
employers like you—but they like at least one other person just as much. At
this point, you’ll need to gain an edge by explaining what you have to offer
that this other person (or people) may not have.Before the day of your
session, think carefully about the specific skills, credentials, and
personality traits that set you apart. Research the company carefully to
determine how these special traits can help these employers succeed. Expect
questions like these:“We know that you’re an experienced (fill in the blank),
but what else do you have?”“What can you do to prove that you’d be an asset to
us?”“We have three other highly qualified contenders for this job. Give us a
reason to choose you.”How many rounds of interviews is normal?The number of
interview rounds can vary widely depending on the industry, the company, and
the level of the position to which you are applying.For high-level or
specialized roles, there might be additional rounds of interviews that focus
on technical skills, cultural fit, or other key areas.In some fast-paced or
smaller work environments, the process could be shorter, with maybe just one
or two interviews in total.In the tech industry, for example, candidates often
go through a technical interview that includes coding challenges, while jobs
in academia might require a series of interviews and a presentation or
lecture.So while there isn’t a strict “normal” number of interview rounds, you
can generally expect at least a couple of rounds in most hiring
processes.Before the Interview, You’ll Need a Strong ResumeBefore you can ace
your interview, you’ll need to land an invitation in the first place.
MyPerfectResume can help. Visit the site for a resume builder that will help
you build a professional get you in the door.

