So, instead of being offended by the question, be thankful for the chance to
add valuable information about yourself. After all, the real reason
interviewers ask this question is to find out what sets you apart from the
other qualified applicants. Other ways the question may be phrased include
asking about your unique skills or what makes you the best-qualified person
for the job.What Skills Can You Bring to the Job?Examples of skills that could
bring to the job include:Hard skills or technical skills, like expertise with
a software suite, or sales or budgeting experienceSoft skills, like excellent
oral and written communication skills, customer service skills, or
organization skillsTaking time to create a thoughtful answer to this question
can set you apart from other applicants and help you create a lasting,
positive image of yourself in the interviewer’s mind. Just be sure that your
answer to these types of interview questions is honest, positive and relevant
to the job description.Sample ‘What Makes You Qualified for This Position’
Interview AnswersAs my resume states, I have over 10 years of experience
working in management in this field. What isn’t stated there is that I was one
of the founders of the company and my sales skills grew it from a start-up all
the way to its first public offering. The skills I used to do this have been
further honed, and I anticipate being able to do great things for your company
as well. In addition to having sharp business acumen, I relate well to my
colleagues and clients and pride myself on being an excellent communicator,
which helps foster a stress-free environment for everyone.I have a Ph.D. in
this field, which you can see from reading my resume. I also have five years
of experience teaching university-level courses, and I have published two
texts on the subject. I feel I am qualified for this position because of my
dedication to the industry and my record of high achievement. I am a goal-
setter and a list-maker, and when I have an idea, I move mountains in order to
accomplish my goals, especially in the workplace. If hired, I anticipate
helping your company set and achieve goals that will shatter all of your
previous sales records. In addition to being a driven professional, I also
enjoy cultivating strong bonds within the workplace, which helps everyone look
forward to showing up for work each day.Feel free to take these ideas and
cultivate your own best answers to interview questions such as ‘what makes you
qualified for this position?’ With a little bit of time and thought, you can
make a positive impression that may lead to your dream job.Other Interview
Questions You May be Asked1. What Skills and Qualities Can You Bring to This
Position?When answering this interview question, focus on the skills and
qualities you possess that most closely align with the needs and requirements
of the role. For example:Hard or soft skills, like software expertise, or
excellent customer service skillsQualities like dedication, determination and
perseverance2. How Do You Meet the Qualifications for This Position?When
answering this interview question, be sure to:Closely align the qualifications
that you hold to the ones outlined in the job descriptionSpeak clearly and
confidently on how your skills, talents and abilities make you the most
qualified candidate for the position3. When Would You Be Available to Start
Work?Check your contract at your current job before your interview. Come to
the interview with a date in mind.Forgot to check your contract? Don’t lie to
the interviewer. Simply tell them that your employer would tell you once you
give notice.Unemployed? Tell your interviewer that you can start as soon as
possible.

