To help you in this quest- you need to consider what the interviewer is really
asking with the “How can you contribute to the team” question. He or she
likely wants to know if you understand what it takes to be a professional and
if you think you have important- company-changing qualities. The answer you
give will show whether you will fit in at the company and meet the company’s
needs. With the right preparation- you will be able to give an outstanding
answer that will set you apart from your peers.How to Answer the ‘What Ways
Can You Make a Contribution to This Company’ Interview QuestionAs you get
ready for the interview- you need to think about specific interview questions.
What should you do to prepare to answer this particular question and others
like it?Bring in accomplishmentsWhat have you accomplished at your current
company? These accomplishments may point to what you will be able to do for
the company you are interviewing with. Have you increased sales or efficiency?
It is okay for you to acknowledge any help you may have had throughout your
accomplishments- but you should avoid putting too much emphasis on this help.
Instead- focus on what you have done and what you will be able to do if you
get the position in question.Keep your answer simpleAs a professional- you
likely have a plethora of accomplishments and skills you could talk about. You
need to consider the most important and only focus on those points. The hiring
manager probably has a limited amount of time to spend with you- so you need
to find a way to give a succinct yet informative answer. Consider focusing
only on a few skills and accomplishments that tie directly to the position you
are currently pursuing. Make a point to only discuss relevant attributes to
ensure everything ties in to what the hiring manager is looking for in an
applicant. This could mean leaving out some of your best skills if they are
irrelevant to the position in question.Answering the “what ways can you make a
contribution to this company” question can be a challenge if you do not
prepare. Thinking about the skills and accomplishments you have that could
help you in this new position may prove beneficial for other parts of the
interview as well- such as answering other interview questions.Sample ‘What
Ways Can You Make a Contribution to This Company’ Interview Answers1. As a
veteran sales representative- I will be able to help lead the charge and
motivate the team. Throughout my management experience- I have been able to
acquire many useful motivational and leadership tools. Yet- I have not lost
the ability to follow when necessary. In the past- I have evaluated business
practices to help implement new programs that improved efficiency throughout
the entire company. It seems companies always wish to be more efficient- and
creating a special task force can help with that endeavor. I look forward to
working with the rest of the team to make important sales and complete
projects. My organizational and time-management skills will come in handy
throughout the new phase of sales at this company.2. The evaluation and
subsequent improvement of a business is an important part of growth. In the
past- I have been on teams designed to develop a variety of measurement tools
that have been used to evaluate and improve business tactics. My strong
leadership and communication skills make me a great leader for this type of
improvement team. However- improvement cannot come about without the right
analysis. I believe it is important to recognize that making a change solely
for the sake of making a change will not help a business grow. Instead- you
have to cut out inefficiencies- which can only be recognized through research
and analytics. If I were to get this job- I would be able to help the company
meet its growth goals through the proper use of teamwork and
leadership.Similar Interview Questions:1. Why should we hire you for this
position?When an interviewer asks what you’ll bring to the role, it’s a
professional opportunity to highlight your skills and accomplishments. Come to
your interview with three-to-five examples of successful projects or positive
results. You may not share all of them, but having definitive proof of your
professional value will demonstrate your strong capabilities for the role.2.
Why do you want to work for this company?Usually, a hiring manager is looking
for a long-term fit. By asking why you want to work for the company, they’d
like to know your long-term career goals and your commitment to the position.
You can demonstrate your interest by researching the company. Find their
recent financial report, read recent press releases, or learn about recent
product updates in the department you’re joining.3. What skills and qualities
can you bring to this position?Think about the skills you use in your current
position and the skills you will likely need at this new company. Where do
they intersect? Try to focus on unique and important skills rather than
something expected of you and any other candidate. To help you really nail
this question- you cannot just look at what you have done in the past. You
need to consider the skills the company needs. Look at the job description to
see what the hiring manager is looking for in a candidate and tailor your
answer to fit those needs if possible.

