“What can I do to stand out in an interview?” is a question you might be
asking yourself. When formulating a response, think about the unique talents,
skills, qualities, and traits that you can bring to the job, and lay out a
strategy for how you can discuss them in an interview in a non-bragging
style.A candidate who can bring unique qualities and traits to the position
that would benefit both the individual in completing the role and the business
as a whole will stand out amongst other applicants. In essence, this question
gives you an opportunity to leave a lasting impression with the interviewer
and for you to inform them of your superior abilities and character traits
that set you apart from the competition. By taking time to fully understand
this goal and how to properly answer the question, you can give yourself a leg
up during your interview process.Still applying for other jobs while prepping
for an interview you’ve landed? Build a new resume that’s aligned to the needs
and requirements of a job ad using our Resume Builder. You’ll get help writing
all resume sections, plus help selecting the best resume template for your
experience level.How to Answer the “What Makes You Stand Out Among Your
Peers?” Interview Question1. Focus on Your Key QualitiesWhen answering “What
makes you stand out among your peers?” and related interview questions-
intentionally focus on the characteristics and attributes that you will bring
to the position and do not harp on what you believe other candidates may lack.
Talking negatively about other candidates may cause you to appear “catty,” may
not be true or valid, and is a waste of your limited interview time. Instead
spend time talking about your qualities that apply to the position at hand. If
you do this correctly you will naturally be a more attractive candidate than
those who do not.2. Do Not BragYou do not want to appear prideful, because
this can reflect poorly upon you, but you should put your best foot forward.
To walk this fine line, you must stick to the facts and provide quality
details to support your claims. However, you do not want to harp on any one
subject too much. Give one or two strong examples that support your key
outstanding attributes and paint a clear picture of your applicable
abilities.3. Support Your Claims With ExperiencesThe best way to validate your
claims is by providing unique examples of your experience. Remember, during
the first interview, the interviewer is taking your word for face value and
usually does not check facts until later in the hiring process. Having
detailed examples can help to validate your claims on both your resume and
during your time together. Your experiences can also make you more memorable
than other candidates. Make sure that your story is relevant to the position
that you are seeking and provide details while keeping it concise and to the
point.4. Do Not Regurgitate Your ResumeFor the most part, interviewers will
have already reviewed your resume before deciding to interview you. Therefore,
it will not do well for you to repeat what they have already read. In fact,
many interviewers are looking to learn more about you, so it is helpful if you
volunteer such information. This also allows you to control such prying and
avoid being caught off guard.Of course, it is good to mention things that you
have on your resume for continuity, but rather than saying the same thing or
rephrasing it, take time to discuss relevant experiences that you have had in
the positions you have listed. This helps to give a personal touch and to
bring your experience to life in the eyes of the interviewer.Sample “What
Makes You Stand Out Among Your Peers?” Interview AnswersThrough my previous
positions in different industries, I have amassed and honed a unique skill set
that makes me a well-rounded and versatile worker. I am able to tackle issues
with a wide perspective and formulate effective problem resolution options. In
my jobs, I have also had the opportunity to work with and under people with
various personality types, so I am able to understand and work with different
work styles, which helps me with team projects as well as when working on
projects independently. These traits, along with my genuine desire to help
others and knack for organization, help to set me apart from my peers.In my
previous position I had the opportunity to work closely with the assistant
property manager. I not only learned the ins and outs of proper leasing
procedures but I also gained experience with advanced skills such as posting
rent and consolidating accounts. These abilities, along with my long history
within customer service and management, have allotted me a vast skill set and
level of experience that I do not believe my peers would have.By heeding the
tips and examples provided, you will be well prepared to answer “What makes
you stand out among your peers?” and similar interview questions.Other
Interview Questions You May be Asked1. What Qualities Do You Have That
Differentiate You from Other Candidates?Keep the following in mind when
answering this interview question:The key—and most unique—qualities that
separate you from other candidatesTalk about these qualities in a non-bragging
tone/styleDo not speak negatively of other candidates when answering the
question2. Why Should We Hire You Over Other Candidates?Keep the following in
mind when answering this interview question:Discuss your unique skillset and
talents in a persuasive yet non-bragging mannerTie your skillset and talents
to the needs and requirements of the jobWhen articulating why you’re The One
for the job, do not throw other candidates under the bus, or speak of them in
a negative manner3. Why Would You be a Good Team Member?Keep the following in
mind when answering this interview question:Your skills and abilities working
on teams, and your commitment to teamworkYour skills and abilities working
with different personalitiesYour commitment to achieving company goals via the
process of productive, efficient teamwork

