As far as questions go- this one is fairly straightforward. When an
interviewer asks you this- he or she likely wants to know what you do to
manage a team. Your answer may give insight into the values you feel are
important. Not every management style will work in every business. The hiring
manager likely wants to ascertain whether you would be a good fit in the
company. To really give a good answer- you simply need to practice and prepare
before the interview.How to Answer the “What’s Your Management Style”
Interview QuestionDefine Good ManagementBefore you can explain your management
style- you have to define what you see as good management. This helps set the
parameters for what you are going to talk about. Like with other interview
questions- this one requires you to tell a story. If you do not properly
define good management- you and the hiring manager may judge the story
differently. Without this definition- the scope of a manager is too large to
answer this difficult question well. It may be helpful to do some research on
the company. Is there a preferred management style used throughout the
business? If so- you should try to align your definition of good management
with what the company is currently doing.What are the four basic management
styles?According to the Harvard Business Review, your leadership style can
fall under these four different management types:Teacher Managers provide
their employees with advice-oriented feedback and personalized development
opportunities.Always-on Managers maintain a constant supply of coaching,
closely follow their employee development, and are invested in upgrading their
employee’s skills.Connector Managers offer feedback based on their own range
of experience, but often connect their employees to additional team members in
order to encourage career growth.Cheerleader Managers are hands-off in their
style. Although they are supportive and available to employees, they encourage
staff to independently pursue career growth and development.Point to your
pastOnce you have established what characteristics are important in a good
manager- you need to point to a story from your past. This should showcase how
you incorporate these good management techniques into your own leadership
style. Be careful that your story is not too long. Most interviewers only have
a set time for each interview- and you do not want to take up too much time on
one topic. At the same time- you want to make sure your story adequately
conveys your management skills. Use your knowledge of the company to ensure
you include traits and skills that are important to the business. Each company
is going to have its own values and culture. You should try to highlight your
adaptability and similar values through this and other stories you tell.Talk
about unique attributesRather than simply defining good management and telling
a story that shows you using those beneficial skills- you need to set yourself
apart. What makes you a unique manager and therefore a great hire? You can add
a unique skill by including an additional professional quality you did not
mention in the definition of good management. Maybe you defined good
management as being direct- hands-off and democratic. In that case- you could
explain to the hiring manager how you are all three of those things- but you
also take the time to coach your direct reports when necessary. Management
positions are often sought after by qualified individuals- so you have to
focus on what makes you unique to help catch the attention of the
interviewer.Sample “What’s Your Management Style” Interview Answers1. I see
good management as giving direction and subsequently space- so the employees
can get their tasks done. I think a good manager will be available if problems
arise- but will also stay hands-off. As I manage my direct reports- I try to
embody this style. At my last job- we were working on a large project for a
new client. Because we had never done a task like this before- I had to give
my direct reports clear directions. Once they understood what needed to get
done- I assigned everyone a task and we all got down to work. I noticed one of
the direct reports struggling- so I quickly stepped in to coach her on the
technique. I take management to a new level by splitting the work up equally
amongst myself and my direct reports.2. There are many management styles out
there. I think a manager has to be diverse and know when to implement the best
style. For example- in this new business you need someone who can give clear
direction- motivation and professional development. You need an individual who
will work alongside his or her direct reports to get the projects done on
time. I have managed in a variety of environments with knowledgeable employees
and employees who did not know what they were doing. I think the best managers
out there do not have a single style- but rather they are able to understand
the needs of their team and provide that leadership.Properly answering the
inquiry can be challenging if you are not ready. Now that you have some sample
answers- you may be better prepared to answer this and other interview
questions.

