In this article, we willOffer guidance for answering the “Why should we hire
you” interview question.Show you 20 answer examples to help you craft a great
response.Provide mistakes to avoid when answering “Why should I hire you.”Give
you tips to help you through the interview.“Why should we hire you”
answersPrefer to learn by example? Here are 20 expert answers and explanations
to help answer “why should we hire you?”1. “Why should we hire you?”
answerThis is a good answer because it:Conveys confidence.Points to the part
of the job description that defines what the company needs.Clearly expresses,
in detail, that the applicant has the skills and experience required to
perform the work.2. “Why should we hire you over other candidates?” sample
answerThis is a good answer because it:Highlights the job candidate’s diverse
background in the field.Emphasizes a differentiator (proactivity).Shows that
the job seeker took the time to research the company.Identifies a potential
need.Demonstrates proactivity by having an example on hand of a possible
answer to the company’s need.3. “Why should we hire you with no experience?”
example answerThis is a good answer because it:Mentions degrees the job seeker
received at prestigious schools.Points out that the candidate has relevant
experience in the form of an internship for a well-known, successful
company.Emphasizes that the applicant’s knowledge and experience will make
them successful in the role.Highlights practical skills and expresses a
genuine desire to grow.“Why should we hire you” sample answers by top job
titlesMarketing manager interview example answerThis “Why should we hire you”
answer works because it:Shows confidence and determination without seeming
arrogant.Defines the job applicant’s experience in the industry.Highlights the
candidate’s accomplishments.Uses numbers for impact.Sales representative
interview answer exampleThis answer works because it:Matches the job
candidate’s skills to the job description clearly and concisely.Expresses
excitement for the job and motivation to take on new challenges.Wraps up by
confidently telling the hiring manager what the candidate can do for them.How
to answer “Why should we hire you” for a project manager jobThis answer works
because it:Is descriptive and detailed.Focuses on the job candidate’s
experience as a project manager.Highlights a measurable achievement.Emphasizes
that the applicant is highly adept at three skills critical to the job.Teacher
answer exampleThis answer works because it:Spotlights the job applicant’s
creativity and resourcefulness — two vital traits for teachers.Demonstrates
that the candidate can lead projects that yield positive results for students,
families and school staff.Highlights a successful project that led to the
creation of a new curriculum.“Why should we hire you” sample answer for a
cashier jobThis answer works because it:Expresses confidence.Uses details like
the names of specific POS systems and the amount of money the job candidate
has handled.Mentions a recent award that the applicant has won because of a
crucial skill.Medical receptionist example answerThis “why should I hire you”
answer is good because it:Tells a detailed story about when the job applicant
took initiative.Shows that the applicant can handle tasks outside of their
usual job duties successfully.Emphasizes valuable skills for a medical
receptionist.Uses metrics to underscore the candidate’s accomplishments.How to
answer “Why should we hire you?” for a line cook jobThis answer is good
because it:Highlights the job candidate’s career progression in the restaurant
industry.Emphasizes attention to detail, safety and cleanliness — mandatory
skills for a line cook.Mentions that the applicant has two
certifications.Wraps up with a nod to the hiring manager’s mastery of the
field.What not to do when answering “why should we hire you during a job
interviewBy now, you should be well-prepared to answer this classic interview
question, but before you start to write down your answers, take note of the
most common pitfalls people make when answering “why should we hire you?” so
you can avoid them.1. Giving generic answers.When answering the “Why should we
hire you” interview question, avoid giving a generic response, such as “I’m a
hardworking individual that will be committed to my job and bring the desired
results.”Generic statements are always bad practice in job interviews because
they have no relevance to potential employers, do not speak to job candidates’
qualifications and don’t explain why the applicant wants to work for the
company. Customizing your answer is imperative if you want to stand out from
other job applicants for the same position.2. Putting the focus on
you.Although you may want to change jobs for better career opportunities,
networking or gaining new skills, this isn’t the best way to respond to “Why
should we hire you.” Instead, talk about yourself but present your
qualifications in a way that tells hiring managers what you can do for them
and why you’re a great fit for their team.3. Talking about salary or
benefits.Employers know everyone wants a comfortable salary and good benefits,
so there’s no reason to bring up those topics in your answer. Wait until you
get the job offer and discuss it with human resources.4. Seeming
desperate.Being unemployed and being rejected when looking for work can feel
scary. Still, confidence is key when you’re on the job hunt, so never let a
hiring see you sweat when they ask, “Why should I hire you?”5 Tips for
answering the “Why should we hire you” interview questionBe honest. If you
are, you will come across as genuine, self-assured and interested in the
job.Don’t ramble. Have one or two good short answers ready. If you know why
you’re the best fit for the role, then it’s easy to remember them without
getting sidetracked and you can ace the interview.Show enthusiasm. Telling
hiring managers you want the job is excellent, but you must show them without
coming across as desperate. The best way to do this is with action words, body
language (smile!) and (confident) tone of voice.Practice! After you’ve
prepared a few answers to “Why should we hire you,” ask a friend or a family
member to perform a mock interview with you. It’s an essential part of
preparing for the real thing!Don’t come across as arrogant. When you practice
your interview, ask your friend or family member to review your words, tone of
voice and body language, and make tweaks until you perfect your response.Key
takeawaysAs you prepare for your job interview, go over this checklist of
points from this article to ensure you are ready to answer “Why should I hire
you?”When employers ask why they should hire you, they want to know what you
consider your greatest strengths and if your values match those of the
company.Confidence is key. You’ve gotten as far as an interview, so you know
you’ve got the required qualifications and that you’re the best fit for the
job. Don’t let nerves get in your way.You can answer why you’re the ideal
candidate by sharing a career achievement from the past or by providing
solutions to a company problem.Tie your skills, experience and achievements to
the job.Never offer a generic answer; create a story around the specific role
you are applying for.Research before you answer. It’s essential to ensure you
are current on the company’s goals, people, and values, so don’t just revisit
your research notes from when you wrote your resume and cover letter. Start a
new search and dig a bit deeper.Avoid answering why you should get the
position by discussing money or benefits, focusing on what you can gain, or
pleading for the job.Need to update your resume? Our professional resume
templates can help give your resume a lift. Download a template to use for
free, or try our Resume Builder to customize your resume fast. Check out our
extensive library of resume examples for inspiration!

